# FInCEN
An Introduction to Data Science Project
# Introduction
The dataset we have chosen is FinCEN which is also known as the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. It is a bureau of the United States Department of the Treasury that collects and analyzes information about financial transactions. FinCEN’s mission is to safeguard the financial system from illicit use, combat money laundering and promote national security.
# Motivation
In current times, the use of online banking has become much more dominant than traditional ways. Businesses are slowly converting from the traditional banking methods to online transactions. Due to the increase of usage of online banking, we can see that e-banking is playing a huge role. People nowadays are relying on online shopping platforms such as Shopee, Lazada etc. which utilise online banking as their primary payment method. However there are downsides to online banking such as illegal transactions that may be harder to trace as there are millions of online transactions happening on a daily basis. Many large corporations use this as an opportunity to perform money laundering.
# Problem Description
Title: The effect of money laundering to the economy <br>
Money laundering damages financial sector institutions that are critical for economic growth, promoting crime and corruption that slow economic growth, reducing efficiency in the real sector of the economy. We believe that this is caused by money laundering activities that are performed by corrupt politicians. Among its other negative socioeconomic effects, money laundering transfers economic power from the market, government, and citizens to criminals. The purpose of this study is to identify the effects of money laundering on the economy of different countries. The data used are transactions from the year 2000 to 2017 that were flagged by financial institutions as suspicious to the authorities of the United States of America.
# Questions
We have come up with a number of questions that we intend to answer by going through the data science process. The questions are listed below:

Descriptive:
<ol>
<li> Which country has the most transactions flagged as suspicious around the world?</li>
<li> What is the total number of suspicious transactions discovered per year?</li>
</ol>
Exploratory: 
<ol>
<li> What is the relationship between financial crime and the gdp of a country?</li>
</ol>
Causal:
<ol>
<li> Does the money generated by financial crimes decrease tax revenues of a country?</li>
</ol>
# Dataset
